---
layout: post
title:  "IFT 6758 Project: Milestone 2"
subtitle: "Six Subtitle"
date:   2023-11-11
---


## 1. Feature Engineering I


## 2. Baseline Models


## 3. Feature Engineering II

<b> List of Added Features</b><br>

<ol>
    <li> <b>gameID_eventID :</b> Event_Game ID for identifying unique events (PK)</li>
    <li> <b>game_period :</b> current period of the game.</li>
    <li> <b>game_seconds :</b> Total number of seconds elapsed in the game</li>
    <li> <b>x_coordinate :</b> shot x coordinate</li>
    <li> <b>y_coordinate :</b> shot y coordinate</li>
    <li> <b>shot_distance_to_goal :</b> distance between x,y coordinates of the shot and the net</li>
    <li> <b>shot_angle :</b> the shot angle.</li>
    <li> <b>shot_type :</b> type of shot</li>
    <li> <b>last_event :</b>  last event type</li>
    <li> <b>last_x_coordinate :</b> last event x coordinate</li>
    <li> <b>last_y_coordinate :</b> last event y coordinate</li>
    <li> <b>distance_from_last_event :</b> distance between x,y coordinates of current event and last event</li>
    <li> <b>time_from_last_event :</b> time passed in seconds since the last event</li>
    <li> <b>rebound :</b> Indicator of whether or not this is a rebound shot. Will be True on the 2nd successive shot, otherwise False.</li>
    <li> <b>speed :</b>  the distance from the previous event divided by the time since the previous event (distance_from_last_event/time_from_last_event).</li>
    <li> <b>change_in_shot_angle :</b> Represents the difference in the angles of consecutive shots relative to the goal. Specifically, it measures the deviation between the angle formed by the last shot and the goal, and the angle formed by the current rebound shot and the goal </li>
    <li> <b>time_since_powerplay_started :</b>  indicates the number of seconds that have passed since the beginning of a power-play. This timer resets to zero once the power-play concludes. </li>
    <li> <b>num_friendly_non_goalie_skaters :</b> denotes the count of skaters from the shooter's team present on the ice, excluding the goalie</li>
    <li> <b>num_opposing_non_goalie_skaters :</b> denotes the count of skaters from the opposing team present on the ice, excluding the goalie</li>
 
</ol>

<b>Comet.ml link storing the required experiment dataframe (wpg_v_wsh_2017021065):</b><br>

<a href="https://www.comet.com/mahmoodhegazy/nhl-data-science/9d2048b8c5d8422db2a2e4ee3551d5c9"> https://www.comet.com/mahmoodhegazy/nhl-data-science/9d2048b8c5d8422db2a2e4ee3551d5c9 </a>

## 4. Advanced Models


## 5. Other/Best Shot Models

### Various Techniques Discussion
<b> (ROC/AUC curve, goal rate vs probability percentile, cumulative proportion of goals vs probability percentile, and the reliability curve)</b>

<b>Training Data</b> - Data from year 2015/16 - 2018/19.<br><br>

